[eerie music]
According to this map,
the one in Seattle
is gonna open tomorrow.
That sinkhole
brought us to L.A.
When I was a little girl,
I was kidnapped.
So was Veronica.
I wanted to get
down here to help.
Isaiah is Gavin.
I'm taking Isaiah to the light.
He has to get to 1988.
Take him up there,
the moment you go,
I'll kill your son.
[whirring]
What is that?
- Josh?
- Riley!
Are we in 1988?
Check this out.
We may have found our
way back to 10,000 BC.
I'm responsible for
these sinkholes opening.
This is our way
into the building.
Do you still love her?
Gavin, I'm sorry.
[gasps]
Hey!
- [grunting]
I came back, gave myself up.
I told you I wasn't
leaving you.
[dramatic music]
♪
Hello?
I got the pliers.
Hey.
- What's up?
- Um, uh--it's just this--
it's an inlet valve.
I'm trying to replace it,
and it's shot.
Where is everyone?
Kids are at school.
[sighs]
- And Gavin?
[puts tool down]
♪
You know where Gavin is.
He's come home drunk
every night this week.
I just--I don't--
I don't know what
to do anymore.
I shouldn't--this is not--
this is not your problem.
- Hey--
- I'm sorry.
You don't have to
apologize for anything.
You're doing
everything you can.
[sniffling]
Thank you.
What are friends for?
[eerie music]
[rattling]
♪
[men shouting]
Don't slow down. Come on!
♪
Move, now!
Get 'em outta here.
- Stop!
- Come on! Come on!
Come on!
[indistinct shouting]
Keep moving!
Move along!
Shackles, come on!
Get 'em off, now!
- What is this place?
- Come on!
You! No talking!
Hurry up!
Shackles off! You two--
You two, tunnel nine.
What do you want from us?
[yelps]
- Son of a bitch!
[grunting]
- Levi!
- Enough!
No time for this!
[intense music]
Get back to work.
You heard Taamit. Move!
♪
[eerie music]
Eve?
Josh?
♪
Eve!
Who are you?
My name is Gavin Harris.
This is Ella, my daughter Izzy.
But you knew me as Isaiah.
- Isaiah?
- Yeah.
I remember you.
You bandaged my hand
in that bus over there.
My God.
Everyone, it's Eve's husband!
Josh's dad.
It's Isaiah, Isaiah grown up.
Hey, do you have some water?
For--
Yeah.
Let's get some water.
It's unbelievable.
How did you get here?
We went through
a sinkhole in Seattle
that somehow brought us
here to L.A.
Wait,
you're here to rescue us?
Look, I'm sorry. We--
We don't have any way home.
Listen, I'm here to
find my family, my--
my son, my wife.
Are they OK?
We don't know.
Where the hell are they?
Eve was captured.
Some people took her and Levi.
What about Josh?
When you went
through the portal,
it expanded.
Josh and my daughter Riley,
they went through to 1988.
What?
Yeah, and a young girl,
Lilly, she went through,
as well.
I didn't remember
them going through.
I don't follow.
Why would you remember?
Because, Ty, I'm Lilly.
But now my name is Ella.
Is it really you?
[tender music]
♪
OK, this is
officially insane.
Dad, we came all this way,
and now they're just gone.
No, no.
We're gonna get them back, OK?
OK.
Hey, you said that Eve and
Levi were taken by some people.
Who were they?
- I'm not sure, man.
I mean, they were armed.
They had machetes,
rode horseback.
Did they have wagons?
Yeah, they did.
How'd you know that?
It's 'cause
he was a boy here.
I remember stories about
a violent group of people
that used wagons and
horses to enslave
anyone who came on their land.
They were called the Exiles.
My grandfather
warned me about them,
but he never told
me where they lived.
[crowd chattering]
What?
What is it?
Your grandfather,
he's here with us.
- Where is he?
- We're holding him.
We're trying to get
him to help us find
this woman named Aldridge.
You've seen Aldridge?
Yes, but she's been
missing for days.
We think she can help us
get Josh and Riley back.
Silas knows where she is.
He gave us a lead.
Eve and Levi went
out to check it out,
but they never came back.
Well, I know he can
help me find the Exiles.
Take me to him.
- This way.
- OK.
Be careful. Hey, he may have
raised you, but he's dangerous.
He kidnapped Eve and Levi.
He was ready to
kill your children.
[tense music]
I remember.
♪
[tarp rustling]
[ominous music]
♪
Hello, my boy.
You remember me.
Welcome home.
[dramatic music]
♪
[indistinct chatter]
If we can get
to that sinkhole,
it will take us
back to 10,000 BC.
So, how do we do this?
We act cool.
And when these cops move,
we slip under the barrier,
run up to the hole, and jump.
That's your idea?
We just run up there
in broad daylight?
We have to.
This is the only way to
get back to our families.
And besides, we don't know
when that thing's gonna close.
No, there has to
be a better plan.
There's too many cops.
Who we can outrun.
OK, so we get caught.
What do we say?
That there's way more
going on with these sinkholes
than anyone knows.
Do you hear yourself?
They'll think we're insane.
That's why
we can't get caught.
Look, Josh, we both
want to see our families.
But we have to be
smart about this.
We'll come back at night.
It's dark, less cops.
Agreed?
Yeah.
[dramatic music]
Keep moving!
You have one job
and one job only.
Find this rock.
When you find some,
tell the guard immediately.
Then keep digging.
You get it! Dig!
Dig! I said, move!
[men shouting]
Come on, faster.
Guards! I got one.
What do you think
that black rock is?
I don't know.
Maybe he does.
Hey.
We just got here.
You been in this place long?
- Not too long--
I think.
It's hard to keep track.
I'm Virgil.
Virgil,
where did you come from?
Los Angeles.
Fell through a sinkhole up by
the Tar Pits,
same as them.
About a dozen of us here.
- Us, too.
We've been living in a clearing
about 10 miles west of here.
What do you know about these
people who are holding us?
They're brutal.
Make us dig.
Take what we find
and put it in these crates.
To go where?
No one knows, man.
On your feet!
Want my advice?
Keep your head down,
and do exactly what they say.
You step out of line,
these people will kill you.
Hey!
Keep digging.
[rocks clattering]
I need your help.
Some people have taken
my wife and my friend.
I think it was the Exiles.
Can you help me find them?
You're my grandson.
I'll do anything you ask.
Thank you.
Where the Exiles live
is difficult
to access, dangerous.
But I can show you the way.
No, these people aren't
gonna let you just leave.
You're just gonna have to
tell me how to get there.
That's not possible.
I have to go with you,
and it can only be us.
- No--
- No, we can't risk
being exposed.
- Stop. Stop!
I know what you're doing.
- I'm offering to help.
- No.
You're trying to use me
so that you can escape.
That's all.
The Exiles are merciless.
You remember the stories,
don't you?
They'll kill your
wife and your friend
and never think twice about it.
You want to see
them alive again,
then we need to leave now.
And you need to listen to me.
- Where to?
- This way.
Whoa, whoa.
What's going on?
Silas is bringing
me to the Exiles.
Gavin, wait.
Look, we promised Paara
we'd take Silas
back to her village.
Our relationship with
them depends on it.
We can't go back on our word.
- I'm sorry,
but Eve's life is on the line.
- We're going with you.
- No no, no. You can't.
Silas has intel on how
to get my daughter back.
I need to make sure he
doesn't try and escape.
Dad, listen to them.
You can't go alone.
Iz, it has to be just me
and him.
It's the only way
he's gonna help me.
You cannot trust him, Gavin.
Remember what he's done.
- I can't let you do this.
- Hey, hey,
we're gonna
save Josh and Riley.
But right now,
these people have Eve,
and I have to take Silas.
Please.
Promise me you won't
let him out of your sight,
and you'll get him back here.
Yeah.
Wait, Dad, Dad.
Iz, I need you to
stay with them, OK?
Be careful.
I'll be back
as fast as I can.
When I am, I'll have
Mom and Levi with me.
Come on.
[tense music]
♪
[INXS's "New Sensation"]
♪ Live, baby, live
♪ Now that the day is over
Thank you.
Mmm.
These really are
the best since 1988.
What are you talking about?
This is my dad's
favorite spot.
He grew up here.
He used to bring me
here all the time.
They have this giant
sign that says,
"LA's best dogs since 1988."
Or they will.
[people screaming on ride]
I've never thought
about this before,
but I could totally
run into my dad here.
How crazy would that be?
Would it be as crazy
as hanging out with
your 10-year-old father,
and then
sending him through a light
in the sky so you don't die?
Good point.
[laughs]
Josh. Josh, look at that
guy over there.
I think I saw him
at the sinkhole.
Yeah, so?
So do you think
he's following us?
Why would he do that?
It's probably just
a coincidence.
You're being a little paranoid.
OK, well, there's only
one way to find out.
What are you doing?
Sorry to bother you.
Are you stalking us?
Me?
No.
You sure about that?
OK, I am following you.
Not stalking.
There's a difference.
- I knew it.
- I overheard you talking
at the Hollywood sign.
You said, there's way more
going on with these sinkholes
than anyone knows.
Thing is, you're right.
You're not the only
one to think that.
I do, too.
Who the hell are you?
I'm--I'm Franklin Marsh.
I'm a professor of
geology at Cal Tech.
We have a lot to discuss.
[dramatic music]
♪
[chuckles]
You recognize this place?
These woods are where I
first taught you to hunt.
That's where you killed
your first wild pig.
It was a mean one, too.
You needed my help,
if you remember.
Please, Gavin.
No, I'm not
cutting you loose.
You bring me to Eve,
I'll consider it.
There was a time
you used to trust me.
Yeah, there was.
And then you hurt my wife,
threatened my children.
What if I told you I did
those things to protect you?
[dark tone]
I raised you,
loved you unconditionally.
I still do.
You know, if that were true,
you would have told Eve how to
bring Josh back right away.
It's not that simple.
No?
Why not?
Is there a way to
bring my son back?
I don't know.
You're lying to me.
You wanna know why
I don't trust you?
There's your answer.
Veronica?
Do I know you?
I know you don't
recognize me, but...
it's me, Lilly.
I went through the light,
but now I'm back.
[tender music]
♪
Oh, my God.
[laughs] Lilly.
♪
[creaking]
[footsteps approaching]
Your mom and
Josh slept there.
Yeah, I figured.
You know,
if you're interested,
we've got some stuff to do.
Search party's gone out to
find a friend of ours, Scott.
A few others are
clearing the fields
so we can start planting crops.
You can help.
- I'm fine here.
Thanks, though.
- I saw you limping earlier.
You in pain?
Not really.
[chuckles] You're tough.
Just like your mom.
Let me guess, limb abrasion.
My socket got cracked.
Oh, that was my second guess.
So I came prepared.
Got some tape, little tar
from the tar pit over there.
I know it sounds low tech,
but I think it'll do the trick.
How do you know all this?
I worked with the
Wounded Warriors program.
I spent a lot of time
with vets and prosthetics.
Can I take a look?
Yep, there it is.
OK.
Why do I feel like
I've met you before?
[chuckles] My son says I've
got one of those faces.
Your last name
isn't Velez, is it?
How'd you know?
I go to school
with your son Andrew.
I was at a vigil with him.
He showed me a picture
of you and his sister.
You were with Andrew?
Is he OK?
He misses you a lot,
but he hasn't lost hope.
Uh--
Sorry your brother
wasn't here to meet you.
Everything with him and
Riley happened so fast.
They're gonna be OK.
My brother has
always protected me,
so I know he'll watch
out for your daughter.
We're gonna get them both back.
I know we will.
Thirsty?
Thanks.
I still can't believe it.
I know, but it's me.
So, how much you remember
about me?
About us?
You mean,
you, me, and Aaron?
I remember everything.
[somber music]
♪
I'm sorry.
It's my fault you never got
the childhood you deserve.
I don't blame you.
If it weren't for you,
I wouldn't have made it
through any of what happened.
I owe you, Veronica.
That's why I came back.
What do you mean?
I knew you were in trouble.
You needed help, so I came.
You came back just for me?
Yes.
You would have done
the same for me.
You shouldn't have done that.
Veronica, wait.
♪
I realize you're
upset with me.
But I know this land
better than you.
You need to listen.
- No.
I'm not a little boy anymore.
You have so
much anger inside.
Yeah, because you lied to me.
- I never lied.
- Really?
Hey, so tell me, then,
why do we live in that village?
Where do we come from?
What happened to my parents?
- They died.
- They died how?
[rustling]
- Shh.
There's something out there.
[sighs]
[grunts]
All right.
[unsheathes knife]
[grunts]
Silas, hey, hey.
Pass me the knife.
Silas? Yeah.
Hey, cut me down.
Hey.
Silas!
Cut me down!
Silas! Hey!
Silas, come back!
[grunting]
[snarling, growling]
[huffing, growling]
Easy, easy, easy.
[roars]
Easy, easy, shh. OK, OK.
Easy.
[shushing]
[roaring]
Hey! Hey!
Please! Hey, no!
No, no, no!
[bear whimpers, groans]
[thud]
Silas.
[panting]
[grunts]
Uh!
[panting]
Thought you left.
I would never
leave you, my boy.
Thank you.
Come on.
[dramatic music]
Pick that up!
You! No talking!
Take that outside!
[metal clanking]
Hey! Come on! Faster!
[tool clattering]
I've gotta go.
- Or you can stay.
- Mm, I wish.
I gotta go make dinner
before the kids come home.
Mm-mm, mm-mm.
[chuckles]
[sighs]
What are we doing here, Eve?
I think it's pretty
obvious what we're doing.
How much longer
are we gonna keep
sneaking around like this?
I don't know what
you want me to say.
I think you
deserve to be happy.
To be in a solid relationship,
out in the open.
It would be good for
you and the kids.
I gotta go.
[tender music]
♪
Eve...
I'd really
like to talk about this.
It's just not that simple.
Then explain it to me.
My dad had an affair.
He left my mom,
and I never got over it.
I didn't speak
to him for years.
I'm sorry.
I was 15, Levi.
I was Izzy's age.
♪
[phone buzzing]
Hello?
Wait a minute. What--
I can't hear you. What?
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait--
Is she OK?
Yeah. No, I'll be right there.
I'll be right there.
- What happened?
- Izzy was in an accident.
- Is she all right?
- I don't know.
My neighbor was driving,
and I--I was supposed to
pick her up from school,
and I wasn't there.
I have to go.
- Eve, it's--
I gotta go!
[men shouting]
- What is it?
- I can't die in here, Levi.
Not without seeing
my kids again.
We have to find a way out.
[ominous music]
♪
Move!
Can we talk?
Besides the cave, are
there any other entrances?
That gate's the only way in.
Heard rumors there
might be another way out
through the tunnels.
Not without a map.
If we take out the guards,
sneak out through the gate,
we just need a distraction.
Can you help us?
Me?
Hey, listen.
There are more of us
than there are of them.
Back home, I was a chef,
all right?
I've never been in
a fight in my life.
You told us there was
a dozen other prisoners
here from La Brea.
If we get them on board,
I think we can overpower
the guards.
[sighs]
All right,
I'll see what I can do.
[dramatic music]
♪
Three years ago,
a sinkhole opened up
in the Angeles Forest
unlike anything I'd ever seen.
I went years after, searching
for another like it.
Then, a week ago, one opens up
in the Topanga Canyon.
Let me guess, same thing
at the Hollywood sign.
Every time one of them opens,
their energy waves
coincide with the time factor
that consistently
predict the next one.
Dude, English, please.
More sinkholes are coming.
Like, soon?
Try four days.
And it's gonna be really bad.
Have you told anyone
else about this?
Everyone I can,
but no one believes me.
Look, this is all
super interesting.
But why are you
telling this to us?
When I heard you talking,
I figured
you might have information
that could help
prove what I'm saying is true.
You need to tell
me what you know.
Everyone in this area,
they're all in danger.
What are you talking about?
The next sinkhole
that's coming,
it has the potential to destroy
a huge part of the city.
I have to figure out how to
prove what I'm saying is true,
and I need your help to do it.
[dramatic music]
The Exiles are just
beyond that next rise.
And then what?
There's a back
entrance we can
slip into without being seen.
When it comes near dark,
we'll make our move.
For now,
tell me about your life,
Gavin--
who you became,
what you've done.
Um, well, after I
went through the light,
I got taken in by
some good people.
They became my family.
I guess I grew up like
most kids up there.
And I went to college, joined
the Air Force,
I became a pilot.
Then I met Eve.
We had Izzy and Josh.
Then, uh--well,
then I let them down.
Is it too late to
set things right?
Honestly, I don't know.
That's why I'm down here,
to find out.
I understand regret.
Believe me, I have my own.
Like our family?
My parents?
Hey, look, you gotta
tell me something.
My whole life,
I never knew who I really was
where I came from.
Can you imagine
what that's like?
Can you?
You gotta at least
tell me how they died.
Your mother was
the single most
important person in my life.
She told me to care
for you, protect you,
tell you only what you
needed to know to survive
until she could see you again.
You're saying she's alive?
Your father, too.
Whoa, hey--
If my parents are alive,
and they're down here--
are they down here?
Gavin, please understand.
You can't go looking for them.
Why not?
Because it may
mean your life.
That's why I told you they
were dead, to protect you.
Protect me from what?
If my parents are down here,
I deserve the truth.
You do.
But I made a promise,
and I intend to keep it.
There's a spring over there.
I'm gonna fill my canteen.
Let's hope
Virgil can convince
these guys to help us out.
I need you guys
to trust me.
He will.
Hey, Levi?
- Yeah?
- Can I talk to you
about something?
I've been thinking
a lot lately about us.
You know, and how things ended.
The day you left for Germany--
- Eve, we've been over this.
Leaving you has been the
biggest regret of my life.
What the hell's
going on here?
Get back to work!
[grunts]
[grunting]
- Virgil!
[dramatic music]
[groaning]
[grunting]
[blows landing]
Levi, he's gonna kill him.
[tense music]
Ah!
[struggling efforts]
Get off me!
You're gonna pay for that.
Take him.
No, wait! Wait! No!
Where are you taking him?
Levi!
We're almost there.
Hey, you're thirsty.
Here, drink.
[sighs]
[sighs] I thought you said
we were going in the back.
This is the only way.
No, no, no.
There are guards everywhere.
We'll be caught.
That's the plan.
[ominous music]
[groans] Ohh--
Wait, something's wrong.
♪
You--you drugged me.
I'm sorry, my boy.
This is where
I have to leave you.
[groans]
[tense music]
♪
This is Santa Monica Bay.
Catalina Island is 26 miles
to the south,
Channel Islands due west.
According to my
spectrometer readings,
it's their midpoint where
the next sinkhole will open.
That event will create one
of the largest tidal waves
this world has ever seen.
How big?
Enough to take out Malibu,
Santa Monica, Venice.
- My dad lives here.
- It's going to happen.
I'm sure of it.
I just need to get people to
listen before it's too late.
There's someone
I need to convince.
I need you to tell me
what you know, please.
You have no idea what it's
like to believe something
that no one thinks is true.
Actually, I do.
For years, everyone thought my
dad was crazy, but he--
but he wasn't.
If someone had
just believed him,
everything could
have been different.
What are you saying?
I know if we stay here,
the Hollywood sinkhole
could close,
and we may never
get back to our families.
But we have to do this.
[suspenseful music]
♪
We'll tell you
everything we know.
We're in.
Great job clearing
the field today.
By tomorrow, we'll be halfway
ready to start planting.
Maybe closer if Judah ever
learns how to use a rake.
Not my skill set.
I'm sure your dad
and Silas made camp.
Levi and your mom are
keeping each other safe.
Yeah, I hope so.
- Hey.
Any luck finding Scott?
None.
I mean, I can't get rid of the
guy since I get down here,
and then he's just gone?
Something's not right.
Veronica, you have a moment?
Sure.
But I don't want to talk about Lilly,
or whatever her name is.
Believe me, I understand.
This is strange,
to say the least.
I don't know why she
came back here, Ty.
She cares about you.
There are things
I've done that...
can never be forgiven.
What do you mean?
[somber music]
♪
Good night, Ty.
[sighs]
[branches cracking]
Who's there?
Scott.
You OK?
You are never going to
believe what happened.
[dramatic music]
I've been thinking a lot
lately about how things ended
about the day you left
for Germany.
[phone line trilling]
Come on, Levi.
Pick up.
You've reached
Captain Levi Delgado.
Leave a message.
[beep]
[indistinct chatter]
Levi! Levi!
[plane engine roaring]
[somber music]
♪
- Be safe.
- We'll be good.
Daddy.
♪
Be safe.
[door opens]
- Get in there!
- [grunts]
[coughs, groans]
[door slams]
- Levi.
Hi.
- [groans]
- Are you OK?
- I'm OK.
Oh, God.
♪
I thought I lost you.
I thought you had, too.
[both laugh]
I told you,
I'm not going anywhere.
I sat here for hours,
thinking you were gone.
I know you feel guilty
about leaving me before,
but the truth is, I let you go.
The day you were supposed
to go to Germany,
I went to the base.
I was gonna stop you.
I--and I didn't.
Because after Izzy's accident,
I just thought--
I thought--
I just thought
it was the right thing to do.
And--and that was a mistake.
I don't wanna keep anything
from you ever again because--
Levi--
Yeah?
[tender music]
♪
[grunting]
[gate chains rattling]
[dramatic music]
♪
This will get
you out of the caves.
It's a map.
♪
[men shouting]
Silas--
Get your family back.
[chains rattling]
♪
All of you,
move inside!
[people clamoring]
- You, come on!
- [grunts]
All right, that's enough.
Get moving.
Come on, you two up.
[pushes]
- Ah--
[tense music]
♪
Get up!
Keep moving!
♪